docs/aws-create-policy-and-role-for-arn.rst, before:

********************************************
Steps for customer to create an AWS Role ARN
********************************************

Create Policy
=============

The AWS Policy defines a set of permissions for particular actions in the customer's AWS account. These permissions will allow an entity to perform actions necessary for tracking various EC2 activities.

#. Go `here to start creating the policy <https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/policies$new?step=edit>`_  *or*

   #. log in to AWS console
   #. search Services to go to IAM
   #. click Policies in the left nav
   #. click the "Create policy" button

#. Click JSON to switch to the text editor.
#. Replace the contents of the text editor with the following:

   .. code-block:: json

       {
           "Version": "2012-10-17",
           "Statement": [
               {
                   "Sid": "VisualEditor0",
                   "Effect": "Allow",
                   "Action": [
                       "ec2:DescribeInstances",
                       "ec2:DescribeImages",
                       "ec2:DescribeSnapshots",
                       "ec2:ModifySnapshotAttribute",
                       "ec2:DescribeSnapshotAttribute",
                       "ec2:CopyImage",
                       "ec2:CreateTags",
                       "cloudtrail:CreateTrail",
                       "cloudtrail:UpdateTrail",
                       "cloudtrail:PutEventSelectors",
                       "cloudtrail:DescribeTrails",
                       "cloudtrail:StartLogging",
                       "cloudtrail:StopLogging"
                   ],
                   "Resource": "*"
               }
           ]
       }

   .. note::
       cloudigrade needs each of these actions in order to identify and track relevant software products:

       - `ec2:DescribeInstances <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_DescribeInstances.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to get information about your currently running instances.
       - `ec2:DescribeImages <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_DescribeImages.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to get information about the AMIs used to start your instances.
       - `ec2:DescribeSnapshots <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_DescribeSnapshots.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to get information about snapshots for those AMIs.
       - `ec2:ModifySnapshotAttribute <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_ModifySnapshotAttribute.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to set an attribute that allows cloudigrade to copy snapshots for inspection.
       - `ec2:DescribeSnapshotAttribute <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_DescribeSnapshotAttribute.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to verify that it has set the aforementioned attribute.
       - `ec2:CopyImage <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_CopyImage.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to copy a private image into the customer's account so that cloudigrade can inspect it
       - `ec2:CreateTags <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_CreateTags.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to tag a copied image to indicate where it came from
       - `cloudtrail:CreateTrail <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/APIReference/API_CreateTrail.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to get information about existing cloudtrails
       - `cloudtrail:UpdateTrail <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/APIReference/API_UpdateTrail.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to turn on logging for cloudtrail
       - `cloudtrail:PutEventSelectors <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/APIReference/API_PutEventSelectors.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to create a cloudtrail in your account
       - `cloudtrail:DescribeTrails <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/APIReference/API_DescribeTrails.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to update a cloudtrail in your account
       - `cloudtrail:StartLogging <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/APIReference/API_StartLogging.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to select the events that cloudtrail cares about
       - `cloudtrail:StopLogging <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/APIReference/API_StopLogging.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to stop logging when the user account is removed from cloudigrade

#. Click "Review policy".
#. Give the policy a distinct, memorable name such as ``policy-for-cloudigrade``. Copy this name for reference because you will need it soon.
#. Click "Create policy".


Create Role
===========

The AWS Role is an entity that will be assigned the aforementioned Policy, thereby granting it all of the appropriate permissions. cloudigrade will assume the Role provided by the customer to interact with the customer's AWS account to collect various data about EC2 activities.

#. Go `here to start creating the role <https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home?#/roles$new?step=type&roleType=crossAccount&accountID=372779871274>`_  *or*

   #. log in to AWS console
   #. search Services to go to IAM
   #. click Roles in the left nav
   #. click the "Create role" button
   #. Click "Another AWS account"
   #. Paste this number into the Account ID field: ``372779871274``

#. Click "Next: Permissions".
#. Enter your new policy's name in the search box (e.g. ``policy-for-cloudigrade``)
#. Check the box for the policy.
#. Click "Next: Review".
#. Give the role a distinct, memorable name such as ``role-for-cloudigrade``.
#. Click "Create role".
#. From the Roles list page, click the role name you just created.
#. Copy the generated value for "Role ARN".

Commit message:

Add missing check for describe regions permission.

docs/aws-create-policy-and-role-for-arn.rst, after:

********************************************
Steps for customer to create an AWS Role ARN
********************************************

Create Policy
=============

The AWS Policy defines a set of permissions for particular actions in the customer's AWS account. These permissions will allow an entity to perform actions necessary for tracking various EC2 activities.

#. Go `here to start creating the policy <https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/policies$new?step=edit>`_  *or*

   #. log in to AWS console
   #. search Services to go to IAM
   #. click Policies in the left nav
   #. click the "Create policy" button

#. Click JSON to switch to the text editor.
#. Replace the contents of the text editor with the following:

   .. code-block:: json

       {
           "Version": "2012-10-17",
           "Statement": [
               {
                   "Sid": "VisualEditor0",
                   "Effect": "Allow",
                   "Action": [
                       "ec2:DescribeInstances",
                       "ec2:DescribeImages",
                       "ec2:DescribeSnapshots",
                       "ec2:ModifySnapshotAttribute",
                       "ec2:DescribeSnapshotAttribute",
                       "ec2:CopyImage",
                       "ec2:CreateTags",
                       "ec2:DescribeRegions",
                       "cloudtrail:CreateTrail",
                       "cloudtrail:UpdateTrail",
                       "cloudtrail:PutEventSelectors",
                       "cloudtrail:DescribeTrails",
                       "cloudtrail:StartLogging",
                       "cloudtrail:StopLogging"
                   ],
                   "Resource": "*"
               }
           ]
       }

   .. note::
       cloudigrade needs each of these actions in order to identify and track relevant software products:

       - `ec2:DescribeInstances <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_DescribeInstances.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to get information about your currently running instances.
       - `ec2:DescribeImages <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_DescribeImages.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to get information about the AMIs used to start your instances.
       - `ec2:DescribeSnapshots <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_DescribeSnapshots.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to get information about snapshots for those AMIs.
       - `ec2:ModifySnapshotAttribute <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_ModifySnapshotAttribute.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to set an attribute that allows cloudigrade to copy snapshots for inspection.
       - `ec2:DescribeSnapshotAttribute <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_DescribeSnapshotAttribute.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to verify that it has set the aforementioned attribute.
       - `ec2:CopyImage <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_CopyImage.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to copy a private image into the customer's account so that cloudigrade can inspect it
       - `ec2:CreateTags <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_CreateTags.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to tag a copied image to indicate where it came from
       - `ec2:DescribeRegions <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_DescribeRegions.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to query which regions the user account has access to
       - `cloudtrail:CreateTrail <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/APIReference/API_CreateTrail.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to get information about existing cloudtrails
       - `cloudtrail:UpdateTrail <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/APIReference/API_UpdateTrail.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to turn on logging for cloudtrail
       - `cloudtrail:PutEventSelectors <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/APIReference/API_PutEventSelectors.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to create a cloudtrail in your account
       - `cloudtrail:DescribeTrails <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/APIReference/API_DescribeTrails.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to update a cloudtrail in your account
       - `cloudtrail:StartLogging <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/APIReference/API_StartLogging.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to select the events that cloudtrail cares about
       - `cloudtrail:StopLogging <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/APIReference/API_StopLogging.html>`_ enables cloudigrade to stop logging when the user account is removed from cloudigrade

#. Click "Review policy".
#. Give the policy a distinct, memorable name such as ``policy-for-cloudigrade``. Copy this name for reference because you will need it soon.
#. Click "Create policy".


Create Role
===========

The AWS Role is an entity that will be assigned the aforementioned Policy, thereby granting it all of the appropriate permissions. cloudigrade will assume the Role provided by the customer to interact with the customer's AWS account to collect various data about EC2 activities.

#. Go `here to start creating the role <https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home?#/roles$new?step=type&roleType=crossAccount&accountID=372779871274>`_  *or*

   #. log in to AWS console
   #. search Services to go to IAM
   #. click Roles in the left nav
   #. click the "Create role" button
   #. Click "Another AWS account"
   #. Paste this number into the Account ID field: ``372779871274``

#. Click "Next: Permissions".
#. Enter your new policy's name in the search box (e.g. ``policy-for-cloudigrade``)
#. Check the box for the policy.
#. Click "Next: Review".
#. Give the role a distinct, memorable name such as ``role-for-cloudigrade``.
#. Click "Create role".
#. From the Roles list page, click the role name you just created.
#. Copy the generated value for "Role ARN".
